human-docs/academy/04-TEST-PILOT-RESULTS.md, before:

# VolSpike Academy - Test Pilot Results & Comparison

**Date**: December 22, 2025
**Purpose**: Compare Phase 1 plan steps against what was executed in the Test Pilot
**Status**: ALL STEPS COMPLETED

---

## Executive Summary

| Metric | Phase 1 (Full) | Test Pilot | % Tested |
|--------|----------------|------------|----------|
| Documents | 303 | 12 | 4% |
| Images | 165 | 20 | 12% |
| Analysts | 6 | 6 | 100% |

**All planned steps have been completed** for the test pilot dataset. The mini Academy is now fully functional and accessible to admin users.

---

## Step-by-Step Completion Status

### Step 1: Content Inventory - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Scan for all .docx files | DONE | Found 303 files total |
| Group by analyst | DONE | 6 analysts identified |
| Count files per analyst | DONE | CBS:69, Krillin:54, Loma:42, Mayne:35, Pierre:30, UB:73 |
| Count embedded images | DONE | 165 total images |

**Test Pilot**: Selected 2 files per analyst (12 total) with mix of image/no-image files.

---

### Step 2: Document Processing Pipeline - COMPLETE

#### 2.1 Extract Content from .docx

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Extract text preserving structure | DONE | Paragraphs, headers preserved |
| Extract images as separate files | DONE | 20 images saved as PNG/JPEG |
| Map image positions in text flow | DONE | `![image1](images/image1.png)` in markdown |
| Preserve document hierarchy | DONE | Analyst/chapter structure maintained |

#### 2.2 Image Analysis (Critical)

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Example Output |
|--------------|-------------------|----------------|
| Chart Type | DONE | "candlestick", "line" |
| Timeframe | DONE | "5m", "4h", "daily" |
| Asset | DONE | "ZILLUSDTPERP", "MKRUSDT" |
| Annotations - Trend lines | DONE | "Horizontal support line labeled..." |
| Annotations - Support/resistance | DONE | "Clear, well established Support" |
| Annotations - Entry/exit points | DONE | "Long here on a break back above..." |
| Annotations - Text callouts | DONE | "Arrow and text 'Breakdown...'" |
| Key Observations | DONE | "demonstrates a support level breakdown pattern" |
| Relation to Text | DONE | "illustrates how to identify and trade support level breakdowns" |

---

### Step 3: Content Analysis & Organization - COMPLETE

#### 3.1 LLM Summarization

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Summary (2-3 paragraphs) | DONE | All 12 documents |
| Key Takeaways (3-5 bullets) | DONE | 5-6 takeaways per document |
| Prerequisites | DONE | Listed for each lesson |
| Topics Covered (tags) | DONE | Categorized appropriately |
| Difficulty level | DONE | beginner/intermediate/advanced |
| Image Integration Notes | DONE | How images relate to text |

#### 3.2 Topic Taxonomy Generation - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Generate topic hierarchy | DONE | Full taxonomy in topic-taxonomy.json |
| Trading Fundamentals | DONE | Core concepts identified |
| Technical Analysis | DONE | Moving averages, Fibonacci, patterns |
| Psychology | DONE | FOMO, context, round-tripping |
| Risk Management | DONE | Position sizing, profit taking |

**Output**: `test-output/topic-taxonomy.json`

#### 3.3 Deduplication Analysis - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Semantic similarity analysis | DONE | LLM-based analysis |
| Find content overlaps | DONE | 2 overlap pairs identified |
| Identify best explanation | DONE | Recommendations provided |
| Mark true duplicates | DONE | None were true duplicates |

**Output**: `test-output/deduplication-analysis.json`

---

### Step 4: Curriculum Design - COMPLETE

#### 4.1 Learning Path Proposal - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Propose beginner path | DONE | "Trading Fundamentals & Psychology" |
| Propose intermediate path | DONE | "Technical Analysis & Strategy Development" |
| Propose advanced path | DONE | "Advanced Market Structure Trading" |
| Organize into modules | DONE | 7 modules across 3 paths |
| Suggest lesson order | DONE | Rationale provided for each |

**Learning Paths Created**:
```
Path 1: Trading Fundamentals & Psychology (beginner)
├── Module: Trading Psychology & Mindset (2 lessons)
└── Module: Risk Management & Portfolio Building (2 lessons)

Path 2: Technical Analysis & Strategy Development (intermediate)
├── Module: Core Technical Analysis (2 lessons)
├── Module: Moving Averages & Trend Following (2 lessons)
├── Module: Specialized Market Applications (2 lessons)
└── Module: Profit Management & Exit Strategies (1 lesson)

Path 3: Advanced Market Structure Trading (advanced)
└── Module: Advanced Market Structure Analysis (1 lesson)
```

#### 4.2 Content Transformation - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Rewrite for consistent voice | DONE | All 12 lessons transformed |
| Create module introductions | DONE | Path and module intros generated |
| Add transitions | DONE | Lesson-to-lesson transitions |
| Generate quiz questions | DONE | 3-5 questions per lesson |

**Output Files**:
- `test-output/transformed-content.json` - All transformed lessons
- `test-output/module-content.json` - Path/module introductions
- Individual `transformed.json` and `quiz.json` per lesson folder

---

### Step 5: Database & Backend - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Add Prisma schema | DONE | 6 new models added |
| Create API endpoints | DONE | Full CRUD for Academy |
| Import endpoint | DONE | Bulk import capability |

**Prisma Models Added**:
- `AcademyLearningPath`
- `AcademyModule`
- `AcademyLesson`
- `AcademyImage`
- `AcademyQuizQuestion`
- `AcademyProgress`

**API Endpoints Created** (`/api/admin/academy/*`):
- `GET/POST /paths` - Learning paths CRUD
- `GET/PATCH/DELETE /paths/:id`
- `GET/POST /modules` - Modules CRUD
- `GET/POST /lessons` - Lessons CRUD
- `GET/PATCH/DELETE /lessons/:id`
- `POST /quiz-questions` - Quiz questions
- `POST /quiz-questions/bulk` - Bulk quiz creation
- `POST /images` - Image references
- `POST /images/bulk` - Bulk image creation
- `POST /import` - Import entire curriculum
- `GET /stats` - Academy statistics

---

### Step 6: Frontend Implementation - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Admin Academy page | DONE | `/admin/academy` |
| Curriculum tree view | DONE | Expandable paths/modules/lessons |
| Lesson preview | DONE | Content, quiz preview |
| Content import | DONE | JSON file upload |
| Publish/unpublish | DONE | Toggle per learning path |

**Admin Features**:
- Statistics dashboard (paths, modules, lessons, quiz questions)
- Curriculum tree navigator
- Lesson preview panel with quiz questions
- JSON import functionality
- Publish/unpublish toggle for paths

**Sidebar Navigation**: Academy link added to admin sidebar

---

## Test Pilot Output Files - Final Structure

```
volspike-academy-tools/test-output/
├── manifest.json              - Extraction manifest
├── analysis-manifest.json     - All analyses combined
├── curriculum-proposal.json   - Structured proposal
├── curriculum-proposal.md     - Human-readable proposal
├── topic-taxonomy.json        - Full topic hierarchy
├── deduplication-analysis.json - Overlap analysis
├── module-content.json        - Path/module introductions
├── transformed-content.json   - All transformed lessons
├── import-payload.json        - Ready for database import
└── [12 document folders]
    ├── content.md             - Extracted markdown
    ├── metadata.json          - Document metadata
    ├── analysis.json          - LLM analysis
    ├── transformed.json       - Transformed content
    ├── quiz.json              - Quiz questions
    └── images/                - Extracted images
        └── image*-analysis.json - Per-image analysis
```

---

## How to Use the Mini Academy

### 1. Run Database Migration (Required)

```bash
cd volspike-nodejs-backend
npx prisma migrate dev --name add_academy_models
```

### 2. Import Content

**Option A**: Via Admin UI
1. Navigate to `/admin/academy`
2. Click "Import Content"
3. Select `test-output/import-payload.json`

**Option B**: Via Python Script
```bash
cd volspike-academy-tools
python import_to_database.py --api-url http://localhost:3001
```

**Option C**: Via API
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3001/api/admin/academy/import \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_ADMIN_TOKEN" \
  -d @test-output/import-payload.json
```

### 3. Access the Academy Admin

Navigate to `/admin/academy` in your browser (requires admin login).

---

## Actual Costs Incurred

| Service | Usage | Cost |
|---------|-------|------|
| Claude API (image analysis) | 20 images | ~$0.80 |
| Claude API (summarization) | 12 docs | ~$0.50 |
| Claude API (curriculum) | 1 call | ~$0.10 |
| Claude API (transformation) | 12 docs | ~$1.00 |
| Claude API (quiz generation) | 12 docs | ~$0.50 |
| Claude API (module content) | 1 call | ~$0.20 |
| Claude API (taxonomy/dedup) | 2 calls | ~$0.40 |
| **Total** | | **~$3.50** |

**Projected Full Run Cost**: ~$50-70 (303 docs, 165 images)

---

## Recommended Next Steps

1. **RUN MIGRATION** - Execute Prisma migration to create database tables
2. **IMPORT CONTENT** - Use import-payload.json to populate database
3. **VERIFY** - Check admin UI at `/admin/academy`
4. **DECIDE** - Approve to proceed with full 303 document processing
5. **SCALE** - Run pipeline on complete dataset
6. **PUBLIC FRONTEND** - Build user-facing Academy pages

---

*Document updated: December 22, 2025*
*Status: Test Pilot 100% Complete*

Commit message:

fix(academy): strip image markdown from lesson content
Original images from source documents cannot be reused. The image
markdown references are now stripped from displayed content. Image
analysis metadata is preserved for future replacement image generation.

Updated documentation to clarify the image strategy for Phase 2+.

human-docs/academy/04-TEST-PILOT-RESULTS.md, after:

# VolSpike Academy - Test Pilot Results & Comparison

**Date**: December 22, 2025
**Purpose**: Compare Phase 1 plan steps against what was executed in the Test Pilot
**Status**: ALL STEPS COMPLETED

---

## Executive Summary

| Metric | Phase 1 (Full) | Test Pilot | % Tested |
|--------|----------------|------------|----------|
| Documents | 303 | 12 | 4% |
| Images | 165 | 20 | 12% |
| Analysts | 6 | 6 | 100% |

**All planned steps have been completed** for the test pilot dataset. The mini Academy is now fully functional and accessible to admin users.

---

## Step-by-Step Completion Status

### Step 1: Content Inventory - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Scan for all .docx files | DONE | Found 303 files total |
| Group by analyst | DONE | 6 analysts identified |
| Count files per analyst | DONE | CBS:69, Krillin:54, Loma:42, Mayne:35, Pierre:30, UB:73 |
| Count embedded images | DONE | 165 total images |

**Test Pilot**: Selected 2 files per analyst (12 total) with mix of image/no-image files.

---

### Step 2: Document Processing Pipeline - COMPLETE

#### 2.1 Extract Content from .docx

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Extract text preserving structure | DONE | Paragraphs, headers preserved |
| Extract images as separate files | DONE | 20 images saved as PNG/JPEG |
| Map image positions in text flow | DONE | `![image1](images/image1.png)` in markdown |
| Preserve document hierarchy | DONE | Analyst/chapter structure maintained |

#### 2.2 Image Analysis (Critical)

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Example Output |
|--------------|-------------------|----------------|
| Chart Type | DONE | "candlestick", "line" |
| Timeframe | DONE | "5m", "4h", "daily" |
| Asset | DONE | "ZILLUSDTPERP", "MKRUSDT" |
| Annotations - Trend lines | DONE | "Horizontal support line labeled..." |
| Annotations - Support/resistance | DONE | "Clear, well established Support" |
| Annotations - Entry/exit points | DONE | "Long here on a break back above..." |
| Annotations - Text callouts | DONE | "Arrow and text 'Breakdown...'" |
| Key Observations | DONE | "demonstrates a support level breakdown pattern" |
| Relation to Text | DONE | "illustrates how to identify and trade support level breakdowns" |

---

### Step 3: Content Analysis & Organization - COMPLETE

#### 3.1 LLM Summarization

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Summary (2-3 paragraphs) | DONE | All 12 documents |
| Key Takeaways (3-5 bullets) | DONE | 5-6 takeaways per document |
| Prerequisites | DONE | Listed for each lesson |
| Topics Covered (tags) | DONE | Categorized appropriately |
| Difficulty level | DONE | beginner/intermediate/advanced |
| Image Integration Notes | DONE | How images relate to text |

#### 3.2 Topic Taxonomy Generation - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Generate topic hierarchy | DONE | Full taxonomy in topic-taxonomy.json |
| Trading Fundamentals | DONE | Core concepts identified |
| Technical Analysis | DONE | Moving averages, Fibonacci, patterns |
| Psychology | DONE | FOMO, context, round-tripping |
| Risk Management | DONE | Position sizing, profit taking |

**Output**: `test-output/topic-taxonomy.json`

#### 3.3 Deduplication Analysis - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Semantic similarity analysis | DONE | LLM-based analysis |
| Find content overlaps | DONE | 2 overlap pairs identified |
| Identify best explanation | DONE | Recommendations provided |
| Mark true duplicates | DONE | None were true duplicates |

**Output**: `test-output/deduplication-analysis.json`

---

### Step 4: Curriculum Design - COMPLETE

#### 4.1 Learning Path Proposal - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Propose beginner path | DONE | "Trading Fundamentals & Psychology" |
| Propose intermediate path | DONE | "Technical Analysis & Strategy Development" |
| Propose advanced path | DONE | "Advanced Market Structure Trading" |
| Organize into modules | DONE | 7 modules across 3 paths |
| Suggest lesson order | DONE | Rationale provided for each |

**Learning Paths Created**:
```
Path 1: Trading Fundamentals & Psychology (beginner)
├── Module: Trading Psychology & Mindset (2 lessons)
└── Module: Risk Management & Portfolio Building (2 lessons)

Path 2: Technical Analysis & Strategy Development (intermediate)
├── Module: Core Technical Analysis (2 lessons)
├── Module: Moving Averages & Trend Following (2 lessons)
├── Module: Specialized Market Applications (2 lessons)
└── Module: Profit Management & Exit Strategies (1 lesson)

Path 3: Advanced Market Structure Trading (advanced)
└── Module: Advanced Market Structure Analysis (1 lesson)
```

#### 4.2 Content Transformation - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Rewrite for consistent voice | DONE | All 12 lessons transformed |
| Create module introductions | DONE | Path and module intros generated |
| Add transitions | DONE | Lesson-to-lesson transitions |
| Generate quiz questions | DONE | 3-5 questions per lesson |

**Output Files**:
- `test-output/transformed-content.json` - All transformed lessons
- `test-output/module-content.json` - Path/module introductions
- Individual `transformed.json` and `quiz.json` per lesson folder

---

### Step 5: Database & Backend - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Add Prisma schema | DONE | 6 new models added |
| Create API endpoints | DONE | Full CRUD for Academy |
| Import endpoint | DONE | Bulk import capability |

**Prisma Models Added**:
- `AcademyLearningPath`
- `AcademyModule`
- `AcademyLesson`
- `AcademyImage`
- `AcademyQuizQuestion`
- `AcademyProgress`

**API Endpoints Created** (`/api/admin/academy/*`):
- `GET/POST /paths` - Learning paths CRUD
- `GET/PATCH/DELETE /paths/:id`
- `GET/POST /modules` - Modules CRUD
- `GET/POST /lessons` - Lessons CRUD
- `GET/PATCH/DELETE /lessons/:id`
- `POST /quiz-questions` - Quiz questions
- `POST /quiz-questions/bulk` - Bulk quiz creation
- `POST /images` - Image references
- `POST /images/bulk` - Bulk image creation
- `POST /import` - Import entire curriculum
- `GET /stats` - Academy statistics

---

### Step 6: Frontend Implementation - COMPLETE

| Phase 1 Plan | Test Pilot Status | Notes |
|--------------|-------------------|-------|
| Admin Academy page | DONE | `/admin/academy` |
| Curriculum tree view | DONE | Expandable paths/modules/lessons |
| Lesson preview | DONE | Content, quiz preview |
| Content import | DONE | JSON file upload |
| Publish/unpublish | DONE | Toggle per learning path |

**Admin Features**:
- Statistics dashboard (paths, modules, lessons, quiz questions)
- Curriculum tree navigator
- Lesson preview panel with quiz questions
- JSON import functionality
- Publish/unpublish toggle for paths

**Sidebar Navigation**: Academy link added to admin sidebar

---

## Test Pilot Output Files - Final Structure

```
volspike-academy-tools/test-output/
├── manifest.json              - Extraction manifest
├── analysis-manifest.json     - All analyses combined
├── curriculum-proposal.json   - Structured proposal
├── curriculum-proposal.md     - Human-readable proposal
├── topic-taxonomy.json        - Full topic hierarchy
├── deduplication-analysis.json - Overlap analysis
├── module-content.json        - Path/module introductions
├── transformed-content.json   - All transformed lessons
├── import-payload.json        - Ready for database import
└── [12 document folders]
    ├── content.md             - Extracted markdown
    ├── metadata.json          - Document metadata
    ├── analysis.json          - LLM analysis
    ├── transformed.json       - Transformed content
    ├── quiz.json              - Quiz questions
    └── images/                - Extracted images
        └── image*-analysis.json - Per-image analysis
```

---

## How to Use the Mini Academy

### 1. Run Database Migration (Required)

```bash
cd volspike-nodejs-backend
npx prisma migrate dev --name add_academy_models
```

### 2. Import Content

**Option A**: Via Admin UI
1. Navigate to `/admin/academy`
2. Click "Import Content"
3. Select `test-output/import-payload.json`

**Option B**: Via Python Script
```bash
cd volspike-academy-tools
python import_to_database.py --api-url http://localhost:3001
```

**Option C**: Via API
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3001/api/admin/academy/import \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_ADMIN_TOKEN" \
  -d @test-output/import-payload.json
```

### 3. Access the Academy Admin

Navigate to `/admin/academy` in your browser (requires admin login).

---

## Actual Costs Incurred

| Service | Usage | Cost |
|---------|-------|------|
| Claude API (image analysis) | 20 images | ~$0.80 |
| Claude API (summarization) | 12 docs | ~$0.50 |
| Claude API (curriculum) | 1 call | ~$0.10 |
| Claude API (transformation) | 12 docs | ~$1.00 |
| Claude API (quiz generation) | 12 docs | ~$0.50 |
| Claude API (module content) | 1 call | ~$0.20 |
| Claude API (taxonomy/dedup) | 2 calls | ~$0.40 |
| **Total** | | **~$3.50** |

**Projected Full Run Cost**: ~$50-70 (303 docs, 165 images)

---

## Important: Image Strategy

**Original images from source documents cannot be reused** in the Academy. The image analysis performed during processing captures metadata about each image (chart type, timeframe, asset, annotations, key observations) for future reference.

**Current Status**:
- Image markdown references (`![image1](images/image1.png)`) are stripped from displayed content
- Image analysis data is preserved in `image*-analysis.json` files for each lesson
- The `AcademyImage` database model stores image analysis metadata

**Future Implementation** (Phase 2+):
1. Use image analysis metadata to generate replacement educational diagrams
2. Options include:
   - AI-generated chart illustrations based on analysis descriptions
   - Simplified diagrams created by designers using analysis as spec
   - Generic educational graphics that convey the same concepts
3. Upload replacement images to CDN and update lesson content

---

## Recommended Next Steps

1. ~~**RUN MIGRATION**~~ - COMPLETE
2. ~~**IMPORT CONTENT**~~ - COMPLETE
3. ~~**VERIFY**~~ - COMPLETE via `/admin/academy` and `/admin/academy/preview`
4. **DECIDE** - Approve to proceed with full 303 document processing
5. **SCALE** - Run pipeline on complete dataset
6. **PUBLIC FRONTEND** - Build user-facing Academy pages
7. **IMAGE RECREATION** - Generate replacement images for lessons that need visual aids

---

*Document updated: December 22, 2025*
*Status: Test Pilot 100% Complete*
